So time to extract this ID from the url
and for that let's go to the routes folder, there in shop.js. we want to handle a new route and I will
add it below my all products route here.
It will be a get route because we want to display a new page for now
and part of the path is products but that's not everything,
we also have this dynamic segment, the ID. The express router supports us with this,
we can tell the express router that there will be some variable segment by adding a colon and then any
name of our choice like Product ID,
later we'll be able to extract that information by that name here
so remember it.
The important part is the colon here though, this signals to express that it should not look for a route
like products product ID but instead that this part here can be anything and it will simply route or load
this route for this path then and we will then be able to extract that information through that name.
This has one important implication, if you also have another route like router get products delete
let's say,
so that is a normal route,
this is not a dynamic segment, the order would matter. If you order it like this
and keep in mind that your code is parsed from top to bottom and the request goes through that from top
to bottom,
if you order it like this you would never reach that route because if you had a route like products delete,
expressjs would already fire at this route or would already handle it in this route here because
delete would basically be treated as the dynamic segment.
So if you had a dynamic segment and a specific route, you would have to put the more specific route
first
so that for products delete, this handles the request and thereafter
it'll not continue its journey because you don't fire next
but if you then have something else which does not match products delete, then you would go into that
dynamic route.
So this does matter, here however we don't have that case,
I just want to mention it,
so for now let's simply connect a controller where we then can handle this incoming request and where
I then can show you how you can get this information out of the url
and for this, let's go to controllers shop.js and there simply add a new controller,
I will add it below get products, the position doesn't matter
but logically here we get all products
so now I also want to add the function where we get one product.
So here I will have get product, whoops response next like this
and in there
let's now extract that dynamic path segment or the value it holds to be precise.
So this will be our product ID, I'll store it in a constant named prod ID,
that name is up to you
and we can get access to it by accessing our request and then expressjs already gives us a params
object on our request
and on that params object, we can access our product ID and we can access product ID here because we
use product ID in our route shop.js file as a name after the colon.
So the name you use here after the colon is the name by which you can extract the data on this params
object.
And let me show you that this works by logging this, Prod ID and I will then for now simply redirect
to the starting page, later we'll of course render a different view
but for now this will do.
And with that I can now go to shop.js and use my controller here,
so connect the shop controller get product function here
and with this connection set up, if I now go back and please note I'm still on that route with the dynamic
segment,
if I now reload this, I'm getting redirected
which means we handle this,
we don't get the 404 page anymore
and in the console here, I see my dynamic segment logged out through this line. And that of course means
we can not just log it,
we can also use it.